# Contemporary Issues In Data

# Artificial Intelligence for Health Care Data
In this document, I discuss two articles about the application of AI in the healthcare industry as well as the benefits and concerns of such use in respect to data protection, data privacy, and overall medical service management. I present and discuss two opposing views on this topic.

## Article 1
In CPO Magazine's [How Does Artificial Intelligence Help in Data Protection and HIPPA Compliance?](https://www.cpomagazine.com/cyber-security/how-does-artificial-intelligence-help-in-data-protection-and-hipaa-compliance/), the author holds a positive attitude towards the use of AI technology in the healthcare industry in improving medical outcomes, health data security, and compliance with HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, a federal law that required the creation of national standards to protect sensitive patient health information from being disclosed without the patient's consent or knowledge).

The arguments in this article mainly focus on the advantages of AI technology in processing the large amount of health data, monitoring medical devices, and enhancing data security. I find it surprising that rather than regarding AI as one potential cause of data breaches given the data deluge in the healthcare industry, the author lists how AI can actually help improve data security and prevent incidents of breach by identifying new malware threats, identifying and responding to breach, addressing security challenges of smart medical devices, and augmenting human oversight and security shortcomings. It can also further assist with HIPAA Compliance through high-level data governance and management as well as data encryption technology. Such a perspective is indeed interesting and uncommon especially at present when everyone has this growing concern of threats from AI.

## Article 2
Contrary to the claims made in CPO Magazine's piece on the issue, VentureBeat's [AI in health care creates unique data challenges](https://venturebeat.com/2021/02/01/ai-in-health-care-creates-unique-data-challenges/) discusses a series of problems that could be resulted from the application of AI, including issues of privacy, standardization of medical records, errors and bias, and security. 

Rather than in compliance with HIPAA mentioned in article 1, this writer states that the broad language in HIPAA instead enables healthcare compaines to exploit health data using AI given the competitive advantages. Also, in terms of improving medical and health record standards, he argues that there're risks of perpetuating inequality since AI is more accessible in technologically more advanced regions and countries. In other words, AI algorithms for diagnosing diseases can be less precise because the health data used for training is biased. Regarding security issues, the writer uses recent improer data sharing cases caused by phishing incidents - cyber intrusion is one huge problem if the healthcare industry tends to increasingly rely on AI to store, manage, and process data. But the writer also admits that if the technologies can be further developed, AI will serve as a powerful tool in both improving human health and protecting patient information, just as mentioned in article 1.